Block examples documentation (#6560)
plone/volto: docs/source/blocks/examples/custom-view-and-variations.md

    // these are the variations available for this block
    variations: [
      {
        id: 'variation01', // this is the id of the variation
        title: 'Variation 01', // this is the title of the variation
        isDefault: true, // this signals if this is the default variation for this block
        template: VariationView0301, // this is the component that will render the variation
      },
      {
        id: 'variation02',
        title: 'Variation 02',
        isDefault: false,
        template: VariationView0302,
      },
    ],
  };

```

At the top of the file, import the relevant components as follows.

```js
import View03 from './components/ExampleBlock03/View';
import Schema03 from './components/ExampleBlock03/Schema';
import VariationView0301 from './components/ExampleBlock03/VariationView01';
import VariationView0302 from './components/ExampleBlock03/VariationView02';

// This is the icon we use for the example, use a meaningful one or provide your own image.
import imagesSVG from '@plone/volto/icons/images.svg';
```

## See it in action

Your block is ready to be used in your site.

> Restart your Volto site, and you can add it using the block add form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Restart your Volto site, and now you can add the new block from the block chooser found in the {guilabel}`Edit` <img alt="Edit icon" src="../../_static/pen.svg" class="inline"> or {guilabel}`Add` <img alt="Add icon" src="../../_static/add-document.svg" class="inline"> content views.
```

{term}`Internationalization` (i18n) is the process of creating user interfaces which are suitable for different languages and cultural contexts.

To do so, create a file {file}`messages.js` in the same {file}`ExampleBlock05` folder with the following contents.

```js
import { defineMessages } from 'react-intl';

const messages = defineMessages({
  block05: {
    id: 'block05',
    defaultMessage: 'Block 05',
  },
  default: {
    id: 'default',
    defaultMessage: 'Default',
  },
  URL: {
    id: 'URL',
    defaultMessage: 'URL',
  },
  title: {
    id: 'title',
    defaultMessage: 'Title',
  },
});

export default messages;
```

## View component

For variations, the view component needs to use the variation template to render the contents of the block.
You can do so using the `variation` from the `props` of the block.

Create a file {file}`View.jsx` in the {file}`ExampleBlock05` folder with the following contents.

```jsx
import withBlockExtensions from '@plone/volto/helpers/Extensions/withBlockExtensions';
import cx from 'classnames';
import React from 'react';

const View = (props) => {
  // `data` holds the values entered in the block edit form.

>   // `className` holds the CSS class names injected into this block by Volto's `styleClassNameExtenders`.

Reviewer 2: @erral it would be great to split the comments in such a way that you can view it without having to use any scrollbars.
See this screen capture in order to understand what i mean i would like not to have to horizontally scroll in order to read what was the suggestion or documentation for the options used in the block config

![comments-visible](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1769a935-f9f8-496a-922d-8d2bf4c0cc04)

```

Before the last `return config;` statement, write the following configuration.

```js
  config.blocks.blocksConfig.block05 = {
    id: 'block05', // this is the block id, it must match the id on the previous line
    title: 'Block 05', // this is the block title
    view: View05, // this is the block's view component
    //edit: Edit05,
    blockSchema: Schema05, // this is the schema that will be used to render the edit form
    icon: imagesSVG, // this is the image that will be shown in the block selector
    sidebarTab: 1, // this is set to 1 to have the `Block` tab selected in the sidebar editor when editing this block
    // these are the variations available for this block
    variations: [
      {
        id: 'variation01', // this is the id of the variation
        title: 'Variation 01', // this is the title of the variation
        isDefault: true, // this signals if this is the default variation for this block
        template: VariationView0501, // this is the component that will render the variation
      },
      {
        id: 'variation02',
        title: 'Variation 02',
        isDefault: false,
        template: VariationView0502,
      },
    ],
  };

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

At the top of the file, import the relevant components as follows.

```js
import View05 from './components/ExampleBlock05/View';
import Schema05 from './components/ExampleBlock05/Schema';
import VariationView0501 from './components/ExampleBlock05/VariationView01';
import VariationView0502 from './components/ExampleBlock05/VariationView02';

// This is the icon we use for the example, use a meaningful one or provide your own image.
import imagesSVG from '@plone/volto/icons/images.svg';
```

## See it in action

> Your block is ready to be used in your site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your block is ready to use in your site.
```
